---
layout: book
title: "Bitcoin is Venice"
author: "Allen Farrington and Sascha Meyers"
rating: 5
short_review: "'Bitcoin is Venice' examines how Bitcoin's emergence as a currency could revolutionize society. Each chapter introduces thought-provoking ideas, which provided me with many insights. My key takeaway is a reimagined view of Capitalism, emphasizing the lasting impact of tangible creations like buildings and technology, rather than immediate consumption. The book paints an optimistic future, highlighting advancements in both technology and culture. While it is one of my favorite books, I wouldn't recommend it as an introductory read on Bitcoin. Newcomers might benefit more from a simpler book that focuses on fewer concepts and spends more time explaining each."
long_review: true
---



## Chapter 1: Wrestling with the truth
In the first chapter the authors draw an analogy between the evolution of martial arts,  through the emergence of Mixed Martial Arts (MMA), and the principles of free markets. MMA revolutionized the martial arts world by creating a competitive environment where a variety of fighting styles and techniques were tested against each other, mirroring the way free markets allow for the competition of ideas and innovations based on their merit and effectiveness. 

This transformation in the martial arts world not only debunked numerous long-standing myths and traditions, often glamorized in movies or by celebrated masters, but also brought to light surprising new techniques that proved superior in real-world combat. It underscored the importance of practicality and effectiveness, challenging conventional wisdom and reshaping the understanding of martial effectiveness.  Furthermore, the decentralized evolution of martial arts through MMA, where no single authority dictated the 'correct' techniques, reflects a broader skepticism of established authorities and a preference for organic, bottom-up development. This analogy sets a foundation for understanding the dynamics of free markets and the questioning of conventional wisdom.

## Chapter 2: The Complex Market Hypothesis.
In this chapter, the authors dive into a critique of the traditional 'Efficient Market Hypothesis'. They approach this critique through five subsections, each addressing a key aspect of market behavior and economic theory. They argues that markets are more intricate and dynamic than the Efficient Market Hypothesis allows, highlighting the nuances of subjective value, the distinct nature of uncertainty versus risk, the resistance of economic systems to equilibrium, and their leveraging of efficiency. As the authors write, the 'Efficient Market Hypothesis' (EMH) does not require such a thorough debunking but the chapter delivers a fresh, fun and detailed perspective, challenging conventional economic theories and inviting readers to consider how markets truly operate.

According to the authors, the most significant flaw in the EMH is that value is subjective. While this is clear to most people, a common counterargument for objectivity in securities valuation, like stocks and bonds, is that it's based on comparing future cash flows, akin to evaluating more versus less cash, rather than contrasting different entities like apples and oranges. However, the authors note that even within this framework, individual perceptions about the timing of expected cashouts and risk levels vary significantly leading to different valuations. Additionally, a difference in subjective valuations can be caused by external factors that compel investors to buy or sell.

In the second part of the chapter, the authors differentiate between risk and uncertainty in the context of markets and entrepreneurship. Risk is described as a phenomenon stemming from known randomness, which can be quantified and modeled mathematically. In contrast, uncertainty represents the unknowable factors, such as the impact of future discoveries on society. The authors argue that entrepreneurship and market activities are inherently uncertain rather than merely risky. If all market outcomes were simply risky, they could be fully accounted for, leading to minimal volatility — a scenario that is evidently not the case in real-world markets.

The concept of 'bounded rationality' is introduced to further explore this distinction. This concept challenges the idea that humans are perfectly rational, information-optimizing beings, as suggested by some modern economic theories. Instead, 'bounded rationality' suggests that human decision-making is often based on heuristics or 'rules of thumb' that generally work, even if the reasons behind their effectiveness aren't fully understood. This approach contrasts with the perspective of modern behavioral economics, which often labels humans as irrational for not making 'optimal' decisions.

The use of heuristics, according to the authors, not only contributes to the inherent uncertainty in markets but also provides a robustness against unforeseen events. This is unlike 'optimal calculations' which can be disrupted by unexpected variables. To illustrate this point, they use the example of a dog catching a frisbee. Rather than solving complex differential equations to predict the frisbee's trajectory, the dog appears to use a simple heuristic: maintaining a constant angle of view towards the frisbee. This method, while seemingly less precise, allows the dog to adapt to unexpected changes like a gust of wind, demonstrating a practical approach to dealing with uncertainty. The authors imply that similar heuristics play a vital role in human decision-making, especially in the unpredictable world of markets and entrepreneurship.

The authors of go on to highlight a critical flaw in the Random Walk Hypothesis, which is part of the Efficient Market Hypothesis. They point out that while stock prices may be mathematically indistinguishable from random walks, it is obvious that their movements are not random. Clearly, price changes have causes, and the idea that valuations of companies like Netflix or Amazon are random is ridiculous. The authors propose that understanding these market dynamics is less about mathematical modeling and more about intuitive heuristics, such as 'X is going to change' or 'X is better than Y'.

Following this, complexity theory and Poincaré's "Three-Body Problem" is used to explain why economic systems resist equilibria. The Three-Body Problem, which deals with the unpredictable motion of three or more objects in a vacuum, demonstrates the sensitivity of systems to initial conditions. This concept implies that in a constantly changing world, economic systems are more likely to move away from equilibrium rather than towards it. As a fun and interesting sidenote, this means that most mathematical modelling of the economy is not only wrong but actually meaningless.

To address how markets leverage efficiency the authors explain how prices in markets work. It is emphasized that while a price conveys information, it does not contain all information about the price. Drawing from Friedrich Hayek's insights in "The Use of Knowledge in Society," a price is described as a distilled summary of individual information, providing a comparative benchmark. It reflects how challenging or easy it is to obtain something relative to other desires, without detailing the specific reasons. This system allows individuals to apply their own knowledge and resources to make economical choices, extracting maximum value based on these price signals. An important realisation is that the price is not a 'projection' of all available knowledge in society, it is rather individuals themselves who project their own knowledge into theirn own price which markets then aggregate.

The authors emphasize that using debt or leverage alone cannot outperform the market. Markets, over time, naturally weed out unproductive leverage. Companies with excessive debt relative to market conditions risk collapse, while those with insufficient leverage may see reduced profits. This dynamic forces markets to seek an 'optimal' leverage level, which constantly adjusts to shifting societal and economic conditions.

## Chapter 3: This is not Capitalism
In the chapter, "This is not capitalism," the authors dissect the essence of true capitalism and contrast it with the current economic system. They begin by defining capital, explaining it as both consumable goods and the machinery or entities that produce these goods. They argue that in the  current system there is too much focus on the 'flow' (what is produced) relative to the 'stock' (what is owned). In a capitalist system they argue, wise investments are those that yield a high flow relative to the stock invested. The authors argue that true capitalism involves nurturing and growing this stock to secure greater flows in the future.

They critique modern economic practices like the focus on Gross Domestic Product (GDP), which emphasizes flow (production and consumption) at the expense of stock (sustainable resources). This is likened to a farmer consuming his seeds, thereby increasing immediate consumption but sacrificing future production capabilities. The diminishing value of money in the current system further exacerbates this issue, encouraging spending and speculative investments over saving.

One of the very interesting observations of the chapter is that in a genuine capitalist system, capital is deployed in areas of specialization and productivity. In contrast, the modern economy often sees capital being invested indiscriminately in ventures that merely outpace inflation, sometimes even when real yields are negative. This perspective forces a reevalua
tion of capitalism, focusing on the true nature of capital, its responsible management, and the importance of nurturing productive assets like culture and education, which are seen as forms of valuable capital. 

## Chapter 4: Wittgenstein's money
In "Wittgenstein's Money," the authors reflect on a dialogue between philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein and a student to question common perceptions. The student suggests that it’s natural to think the sun orbits the Earth. Wittgenstein asks why this is so, leading to her response that "it just seems that way." This prompts Wittgenstein’s question, “What would it seem like if it did seem like the Earth revolved around the sun?” Inspired by this, the authors pose a similar question: “What would it seem like if it did seem like trustless, global, decentralized money was emerging from zero?”

Adopting this perspective, the authors contend that Bitcoin’s volatility and speculative nature would be expected traits in the initial phase of any new monetary system. They base this on their previous arguments on value accretion, leverage, and volatility, since anything gaining value quickly attracts leverage, and in return volatility.

The chapter also confronts common economic arguments against Bitcoin being legitimate money, arguments often rooted in the "semantic theory of money." These include notions that stable value and being a widely used medium of exchange are prerequisites for something to be considered money. However, such arguments would imply that money would never change, which is, of course, historically false. They also point out how Bitcoin is already being used to store and transact value. They question the belief that money must lose value to stimulate investment and construction in society. This topic is expanded in the next chapter, "The Capital Strip Mine," but the key question to ask is: "Why did the money increase in value?" The answer is that the increase is precisely due to positive returns on investments, leading to reduced prices and an enhanced value of money.

Concluding the chapter, the authors revisit their initial question about the emergence of a trustless, global, decentralized currency from nothing. They suggest that such a scenario would likely resemble the rise of Bitcoin, mirroring its trajectory in today’s financial landscape.

## Chapter 5: The Capital Stripmine
In "The Capital Stripmine," the authors explore the consequences of artificially low interest rates and currency devaluation, arguing that such conditions lead to a destructive cycle akin to 'strip mining' productive capital instead of nurturing and growing it.

The chapter begins by distinguishing between financing entrepreneurship through savings versus debt. When an entrepreneur uses $100 of savings to finance a venture, they transform this stored capital into active equity. This money, spent on labor and materials, directly transfers value to workers and suppliers likely increasing their immediate consumption, with the entrepreneur holding $100 of equity in the company.

If the entrepreneur chooses to finance their venture through a mix of debt and savings, such as borrowing $50 and contributing $50 of their own money, the dynamics change. In this scenario, the business owes $50 to the lender, while the entrepreneur holds $50 in equity. By only putting down half of the equity, the entrepreneur potentially boosts their upside should the company be profitable. However, the interest on the debt increases the required profit margin, thereby elevating the risk of failure, which is now shared by both participants. The immediate effect on consumption remains the same as before, as workers and suppliers are still paid and may increase their short-term spending.

The process of converting savings into a prospective asset, such as equity, which represents future yet uncertain value, is known as financialization. As previously discussed, this transformation typically leads to an increase in immediate consumption. When a newly established company begins generating revenue, it initially directs funds towards settling debts and recovering from the initial dip in asset value. This leads to a subsequent decrease in consumption levels. If the venture proves successful, this reduction in consumption is temporary, and the company not only recoups its initial investment but also adds to the overall capital stock. Conversely, if the venture fails, the reduction in consumption becomes a lasting issue, and the capital stock is likely to diminish due to the natural depletion of assets over time.

In their analysis, the authors emphasize the importance of building capital stock for long-term economic health, prioritizing the success of ventures. They then shift perspective to consider a scenario where immediate consumption is deemed paramount. From this viewpoint, an increase in prices is viewed as a good thing, as it typically results from increased spending, especially when not matched by a rise in supply. Conversely, decreasing prices are usually seen as a bad thing.

Under this consumption-focused approach, all forms of financialization are encouraged, regardless of the likelihood of a venture’s success, since financialization likely increases short-term consumption. When some ventures inevitably fail and consumption subsequently drops, this outcome is viewed negatively. The proposed solution in such a scenario is to further escalate financialization, aiming to increase consumption once again. However, as more ventures fail and productive capital is depleted, prices rise in the long run, paradoxically being perceived as a positive development.

In a natural economic setting, such a cycle would be unsustainable, as financiers of failing ventures would rapidly exhaust their resources. But in a system where money equates to debt and can be created at the will of certain entities, financialization can be continually amplified. This leads to the bailout of banks at risk due to failing ventures, compensated by an increase in the money supply, thereby devaluing the money of savers.

The authors present a simple example of how entities able to issue debt at arbitrary rates negatively affect capital allocation: if monetary expansion is around 7%, a natural interest rate should mirror this figure, requiring businesses to yield at least 7% on borrowed capital to be profitable. However, if interest rates are artificially set lower, say at 4%, businesses only need a 5% yield for a positive nominal return, despite it being negative in real terms. This imbalance encourages excessive consumption and debt accumulation.

The discussion then shifts to the absurdity of negative interest rates. The authors highlight the illogical situation where one can borrow money, consume without investing, and still realize a profit. They argue that this directly incentivizes capital destruction rather than accumulation—akin to a farmer consuming his seeds instead of planting them—thereby undermining the fundamental principles of sustainable economic growth and capital formation.

## Chapter 6: Bitcoin is Venice
This chapter is divided into 6 subsections listed below.

### Bitcoin is Ariadne
The authors explore the idea of Bitcoin as a tool of liberation, not a weapon. It's likened to Ariadne's thread, guiding us out of the complex labyrinth of fiat money. They emphasize that critiques of Bitcoin must address why consensual trade between individuals is problematic, underscoring Bitcoin's role in enabling free economic interaction.

### Bitcoin is Halal
This section draws parallels between Bitcoin and Islamic finance principles, which focus on asset-based systems rather than debt-centric models. The authors discuss Bitcoin's alignment with Islamic finance, particularly its opposition to usury in scenarios where risk isn't shared, presenting it as an alternative to conventional Western banking.

### Bitcoin is Gravity
Bitcoin is described as a value magnet, continually attracting and accumulating worth. The authors suggest that Bitcoin's value proposition strengthens as its value increases. They also highlight how increased liquidity in the Bitcoin network expands its utility beyond being just a store of value, with examples like using Bitcoin for USD transfers on the Lightning Network and innovations like payment streaming on platforms like Nostr.

### Bitcoin is Logos
In this part, Bitcoin is characterized as an evolving open-source language. The authors argue that banning Bitcoin is nearly impossible, as it would require prohibiting the listing of arbitrary hexadecimal numbers. This would lead to absurd scenarios where even broadcasting transactions through tweets or printed on t-shirts could be deemed illegal.

### Bitcoin is Techne
The authors acknowledge that while Bitcoin isn't perfect, it is functional. They address criticisms regarding its design and supposed inefficiencies, arguing that in the real world, trade-offs are inevitable. The key point is that Bitcoin works, a crucial aspect for any practical form of money.

### Bitcoin is Venice
Bitcoin is compared to Renaissance Venice, a symbol of the transition from feudalism to an era of capital formation and trade. The authors propose that Bitcoin could herald a return to a period of capital accumulation, moving away from the current trend of capital destruction.

### Bitcoin is
The chapter concludes with a simple yet profound statement: Regardless of individual opinions, Bitcoin exists as a significant and influential entity in the modern financial landscape.

## Chapter 7: A Capital Renaissance
This chapter discusses how Bitcoin could usher in a new era of capital formation. The exploration covers various aspects: money as a 'common resource,' Bitcoin's introduction of new financing methods for individuals, its potential to free up human time for productive endeavors, its role in decentralizing the internet, and its benefits for the environment, including innovative ways to increase energy generation capacity.

### Money as a Common Pool Resource
The authors begin the chapter by exploring Elinor Ostrom's concept of a 'Common Pool Resource' (CPR). These resources are characterized by their shared nature, where individual exclusion is challenging, but their use leads to depletion. This concept is contrasted with 'public goods,' which are non-excludable and do not deplete through use. For example, a community's fish stock is a CPR — fishing reduces the stock, making it subtractable, whereas air is a public good as it is non-excludable and breathing does not diminish its availability to others.

In this context, money is categorized as a CPR. Its value lies partly in its ability to facilitate capital building and establish trust for trade among strangers, functioning as a form of social capital. However, the misuse of money, such as through excessive printing and debt issuance, leads to the 'strip mining' of capital, as previously discussed. This misuse erodes trust in the monetary institution, thereby devaluing the currency for all who rely on it.

The authors emphasize the importance of distinguishing between what is public and private. While the institution of money is public, individual balance sheets are private, similar to how fish caught from a communal stock become private property.

### New forms of financing and a 'risk free rate'
In the second part of the chapter, the authors discuss how Bitcoin could transform current financialization methods. Due to its capped supply, Bitcoin cannot be endlessly used to finance failing ventures. Additionally, they propose that the Lightning Network, a layer built on top of Bitcoin, could establish a natural 'risk-free' interest rate, a role currently held by government bonds. The Lightning Network operates by locking up Bitcoin in a network of channels between participants and routing payments for a small fee. Channels can be closed for a fee, making the process essentially 'risk-free'. The costs involved are the fees for opening and closing channels, as well as the opportunity cost of having funds tied up.

Further, they describe how various 'sidechains' and additional layers on Bitcoin could enable new forms of financialization, eliminating the need for middleman market makers. One example given is betting markets. Traditionally, such markets require significant liquidity and market makers due to the need for large capital and participants on both sides of bets. With smart contracts on Bitcoin, individuals could create betting contracts for others to take the opposite side. These contracts could be enforced based on outcomes reported by a mutually agreed-upon entity, eliminating the need for a market maker. These contracts could be used for a range of purposes, from sports betting to hedging against weather conditions. For instance, a taxi driver could hedge against sunny days, while a surf instructor might hedge against rain, thereby mutually reducing the inherent uncertainty of each job and supporting each other on days they would otherwise earn less.

The authors also note that betting markets are often more efficient at predicting outcomes compared to voting or polls, as they reflect the beliefs of individuals weighted by their certainty. This concept is further explored in the book 'The Wisdom of Crowds'.

### Freing Human Capital
The most significant shift with the introduction of Bitcoin as money is its ability to store value. This fundamental change removes the need for the average person to constantly 'invest' to preserve their wealth, freeing up time and resources for more productive pursuits. Additionally, the nature of Bitcoin transactions significantly reduces the need for financial intermediaries. This reduction in intermediary involvement allows merchants and entrepreneurs to focus more on their core business activities, their craft, and their customers, rather than on financial management.

The authors discuss how the prevalence of financial intermediaries has shifted work culture, leading to an undervaluing of individual craftsmanship and a focus on the 'sellability' of unproven ideas. This trend has steered companies towards investing in potential rather than in concrete achievements. Additionally, there's a growing emphasis on leadership skills without the foundational experience of hands-on work, reversing the traditional trajectory of learning to work before leading.

### A Free and Open Internet
In the next section, the authors explore the structure of the internet and how it has led to the emergence of large tech monopolies, often characterized by internet censorship and the enforcement of specific agendas. They explain that the internet is built in layers, with the foundational layer allowing free request sending. While this is beneficial, it also presents challenges in managing verifiable identities and scaling, due to the complexities in routing and the prevalence of spam.

To explore how the internet can once again become free from censorship, the authors discuss the evolution of streaming. Initially, streaming was facilitated by torrents, which, despite their decentralized nature, were difficult to maintain and offered little in terms of rewards. This challenge led to the rise of centralized platforms such as Netflix and Spotify. However, with the advent of the Lightning Network and other potential layers and sidechains, the possibility of micropayments has emerged. These micropayments allow users to 'stream as they go' and to contribute small amounts, like a penny, for content they find valuable, as seen on platforms like Fountain or Nostr.

This development could revitalize interest in running torrents, combining the benefits of decentralization with a new incentive model. By requiring micropayments for interactions, it could also be a solution to spam, potentially paving the way for a more open, censorship-resistant internet. 

### Bitcoin, Energy and the Environment

At the beginning of their discussion on Bitcoin and its effects on the environment, the authors argue that increased energy consumption generally leads to enhanced human flourishing. They explain how Bitcoin mining can fund the development of inexpensive energy sources without the need for immediate grid connectivity, thereby improving the quality of life in these areas.

There are three unique properties of Bitcoin mining that enable this. First, miners can monetize any electricity-generating resource, even in locations without an existing electricity grid. The second property arises from the first: as many miners are located near cheap energy sources, mining in populated areas, where people have 'better uses' for electricity, becomes unprofitable. The third property is the mobility of miners, who can easily relocate to new, more cost-effective mining destinations.

This ability to monetize any electricity-generating resource promotes the establishment of power generation in areas lacking infrastructure for local consumption. Over time, as local populations start accessing these power sources, the economic dynamics would eventually render mining unprofitable in these areas, leading miners to relocate. The authors also speculate that this dynamic could inspire a new approach to city planning, focusing on areas with cheap and abundant energy resources, rather than traditional factors like open waterways.

The authors also discuss how Bitcoin mining can aid in reducing carbon emissions. One of the most effective ways it does this is by enabling the profitable and efficient conversion of methane, released during oil production, into carbon dioxide. During oil production, methane, a potent greenhouse gas, is often released into the atmosphere. Typically, it's converted to carbon dioxide by burning, but this process doesn't capture everything, and complete capture is uneconomical. However, capturing methane to generate electricity, which can then be used to power Bitcoin miners, makes this conversion profitable while simultaneously reducing emissions. The authors note that the amount of methane released from flaring could power the Bitcoin network several times over. Additionally, miners can reduce emissions by acting as a marginal buyer of wind and solar energy during periods of overproduction, and quickly shutting off when production decreases. This flexibility allows them to serve as an effective and profitable load balancer, facilitating the integration of larger amounts of wind and solar energy into the grid.

In the end, the authors suggest that Bitcoin's most significant environmental impact will be in promoting long-term thinking. As people feel less pressured to spend due to the non-debasement of their money, the shift towards savings-based economies will enable better decision-making, especially during tough times. For example, a farmer with savings, as opposed to one in debt, can afford to use their savings during challenging periods rather than over-exploiting their land.


## Chapter 8: These Were Capitalists
In Chapter 8, "These Were Capitalists," the authors expand on their earlier discussions of capital by introducing the concepts of social, urban, and cultural capital. This exploration is rooted in their definition of capital as something produced but not yet consumed.

The chapter begins with the concept of social capital, which is defined as the ability to productively utilize established networks. Social capitalists are those who nurture and build trust within relationships. The authors present Jesus as an example, portraying him as a symbol of the grassroots growth of Christianity under the top-down regime of the Roman Empire, which Christianity ultimately outlasted. A key lesson from Jesus’ teachings is the value of accepting individuals as free and allowing them to choose Christianity of their own accord, a stark contrast to later institutional forces within the church that compelled Christian conversion.

Another figure discussed is Martin Luther King Jr., who epitomizes social capitalism through his pacifist approach to combating segregation. King’s efforts were directed towards creating an inclusive network that embraced both black and white individuals. His leadership and philosophy are highlighted as examples of building social capital, aimed at establishing a network accessible to everyone, regardless of race.

In the section on urban capital, the authors explore the shift from local, self-directed building to centralized, top-down urban planning. They suggest this change was influenced by the advent of the automobile and the perceived success of central planning during World War II. The chapter contrasts urban capitalist Jane Jacobs with top-down planners like Robert Moses or Le Corbusier. Jacobs is celebrated for her view of cities as intricate districts catering to diverse individual needs, a perspective that challenges the feasibility of top-down planning. Conversely, Moses' approach, focused more on the needs of cars than people, led to the construction of housing that ultimately failed to attract residents, exacerbating housing shortages.

The discussion on cultural capital addresses the nature of good and bad art. The authors assert that good art is contextually aware, contributing to the cultural stock by engaging with past and future ideas. In contrast, bad art lacks this awareness and context, serving merely as a transient flow without adding to the cultural fabric. They criticize the modern art trend of prioritizing irony and shock value, which they view as failing to build upon cultural capital. The authors commend black American culture for its substantial contribution to 20th-century cultural capital through genres like ragtime, blues, jazz, and hip hop, though they critique certain aspects of self-derogatory hip hop.

The chapter concludes by highlighting the Medici bankers' role in shaping cultural legacy. The Medicis are recognized for their patronage of artists and architects, funding works that have left a lasting impact on cultural capital. This section underscores the significance of investment in culture, both as a form of capital and as a legacy that transcends generations.

## Chapter 9: Global Money, Local Freedom

In the concluding chapter, the authors weave together the concepts from previous chapters, suggesting that Bitcoin's rise will diminish 'toxic bigness' in both government and corporate sectors while bolstering local communities. They argue that Bitcoin is a unique asset: easy and virtually costless to protect, yet it's extremely expensive to attack—a characteristic unprecedented in financial history. This aspect of Bitcoin, they suggest, has the potential to disrupt the current dynamics of power and wealth.

The link between wealth and power in the fiat system is explored. In any system, wealth can buy power, but since fiat money creation is political, power itself enables further money creation, reinforcing 'bigness.' However, Bitcoin subverts this dynamic. Its creation requires significant energy and resource investment, and its secure storage renders it nearly impervious to acquisition through force. Therefore, acquiring Bitcoin necessitates providing genuine value, as opposed to leveraging size and power. This shift, the authors believe, levels the playing field, empowering those with local knowledge and reducing the advantages traditionally enjoyed by the powerful and large entities.

The chapter serves as a comprehensive conclusion to the book, encapsulating its central themes. While it is not a standalone chapter, it effectively summarizes the book's main arguments, reinforcing the notion that Bitcoin could be a catalyst for a more equitable and locally empowered world. The authors encourage readers to explore the entire book for a fuller understanding of these complex and interrelated ideas.