---
layout: book
title: "Death"
author: "Todd May"
rating: 2
short_review: "'Death' by Todd May deals with the topic of being alive and knowing that some day you will die. The book suggests that ones own death is the most important event in ones life as it is the event that gives it meaning. It is a short book and while it does have some good points, I did not find it very interesting."
long_review: true
---

Todd May starts by examining how religions such as Christianity, Islam, and Judaism perceive death as a passage to an afterlife in heaven or hell, while Eastern beliefs like Buddhism and Hinduism view it as a transition within a continuous cycle of existences. A common theme across these beliefs is the non-finality of death. While each of these perspectives adds its own unique meaning to life, they stand in stark contrast to the concept of death as the ultimate end of one's existence. This leads to the  question: What meanings might arise from considering death as the definitive conclusion of our lives?

To explore the finality of death, Todd May examines various interpretations of immortality. He suggests that an immortal life would ultimately become meaningless, as everything would eventually be experienced.

I find this reasoning flawed for several reasons. First, as Cantor showed, there are infinities of different sizes, in fact, there is an infinite amount of different infinities! This implies that an infinite life doesn't necessarily equate to experiencing everything. Second, the dynamic nature of evolving as a person means that even repeated experiences can remain fresh and engaging. This is evident in our own experiences, such as re-reading a familiar book with a new perspective, appreciating a piece of music differently after learning to play an instrument, or revisiting a basic sports technique after learning more advanced skills.

There is a prevailing assumption that repeated activities inevitably lead to boredom due to the eventual exhaustion of novelty, but why should novelty be exhausted? Todd May suggests that mathematics might be the sole enduring intellectual endeavor for an immortal, given its seemingly endless possibilities. But this perspective seems limited. If mathematics can continually offer fresh challenges and discoveries, why would this not apply to other disciplines? Immortality could, theoretically, allow for the endless creation of groundbreaking technologies, beatiful art and architecture as well as cultural insights. This begs the question: Why should immortality confine one to a narrow range of pursuits? (Setting aside, for the moment, the necessary alterations to the laws of physics for immortality to be feasible.)

May later posits that our mortality benefits others, arguing that Earth's overpopulation would worsen if we were immortal. However, the current notion of overpopulation and resource scarcity is debatable. Contrary to this view, we see an annual increase in the production of consumable resources, indicating that resource scarcity today might be more about the scarcity of human time, a concept explored in Chapter 3 of Saifedean Ammous' [Principles of Economics](./principles_of_economics.html). While immortality might eventually lead to resource depletion (though the very notion of 'resource scarcity' may differ for an immortal being), it's worth considering the potential advancements that could arise from prolonged lifespans. If the greatest minds never ceased their intellectual endeavors and collaborated over millennia, advancements like space travel could be significantly more advanced than what we see today.  This advancement would not only expand our resource pool but also create a world brimming with  opportunities for future generations. Such a scenario challenges May's original point by suggesting that immortality could, in fact, enrich the human experience rather than diminish it.

It is true that mortality brings a sort of urgency to our endeavors, a point well illustrated in one of my favorite paragraphs from the book: 'All of us, at some point or another, let go of futures we have envisaged for ourselves: we cannot follow two distinct career paths at the same time; we must put food on the table; for many of us, one thing just leads to another. We wake up one morning recalling there was a time we considered being a musician or opening a cafe or working our way across the country or the world taking on odd jobs. And, for one reason or another, it's too late for that now.' As this passage well reflects, the fragility of our lives endows our experiences with extra preciousness and suggests that we should reflect on how our time is spent as it is indeed scarce.

The book's most intriguing section discusses living with death's uncertainty: the dual unknowns of whether we will or will not live tomorrow. May explores this through Marcus Aurelius's 'Meditations,' where Aurelius reflects on his mortality and insignificance, advocating a focus on the present and on elements within our control.

May underscores that Aurelius's reflections on death and focusing on what is within his control, traditionally seen as a practice of living in the moment, actually represent something deeper. They depict the journey of a man not yet a Stoic, but actively pursuing Stoicism. Aurelius's commitment to self-improvement and enhancing his community signifies more than present-moment awareness; it embodies a purposeful journey towards an uncertain future. This presentation by May, resonated with me, leading me to add 'Meditations' to my reading list.

Reading Todd May's book, I didn't find any groundbreaking ideas, but it did make me think about my own life choices, like my career and where I live. As I'm turning 31 and just wrapped up my master's in the summer, this reflection feels pretty timely and useful.