---
layout: book
title: "Hidden Repression"
author: "Alex Gladstein"
rating: 5
short_review: "'Hidden Repression' by Alex Gladstein is a profound exploration of the global financial system, presenting a critical examination of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank. The book offers insights into the operations of these institutions, showing how their policies and practices disproportionately impact economically disadvantaged nations. The most shocking revelation to me, which is a significant theme throughout the narrative, is the assertion that these loans are not intended as an altruistic aid to struggling countries, but rather as a mechanism of control. They appear to serve as tools to exert influence, functioning as modern colonialism, where impoverished countries are effectively owned by wealthier ones through debt."
long_review: true
---

The book discusses the composition and initial objective of the IMF and World Bank, which were created post World War II to aid in Europe's reconstruction. The IMF introduced its own form of currency known as "Special Drawing Rights" (SDR) - an amalgamation of dollars, euros, yuan, yen, and pounds. Between 1960 and 2008, their primary operation entailed extending high-interest short-term loans to economically struggling nations. The World Bank, too, provides loans, profiting from interest arbitrage. Their funding typically targets specific sectors or projects, primarily aimed at facilitating the export of commodities or industrial agriculture to Western countries.

These institutions are predominantly under the control of the USA, Europe, and Japan. The USA holds veto power, effectively enabling it to obstruct any decision. In contrast, economically disadvantaged countries have significantly fewer voting rights. For instance, despite its population being nearly 20 times larger, India has 3.04% voting rights at the World Bank compared to England's 4.01%.

Gladstein uses Cheryl Payer's analysis to articulate how the IMF discourages local consumption and how its loans often serve to undermine countries' self-reliance. Commonly imposed conditions include currency devaluation, creating favorable conditions and incentives for multinational corporations, and undervaluing state assets and natural resources. A case in point is the construction of the Tucui dam in the Amazon during the late 1970s. The Brazilian government received large loans for the project, primarily aimed at producing electricity for aluminum exports. This resulted in taxpayers subsidizing international corporations after their local forest was destroyed.

The World Bank likewise imposes harmful demands, such as insisting on production for exports, ending protection for local businesses, and promoting the reduction of manufacturing and food production to enhance natural resource export. Loans are frequently granted to support "cash crop" exports like coffee, cocoa, tea, or palm oil, destined for Western markets. This strategy tends to marginalize local food production, leading to agricultural dependence on the heavily subsidized Western farmers. Two examples illustrating this are the shrimp fields in Bangladesh and cotton production in Togo. In the former, local mangrove forests were decimated, eliminating the locals' ability to self-sustain through rice and livestock. In Togo, structural adjustment plans redirected resources from grain production to cotton, impacting 60% of the population previously engaged in farming.

One repercussion of the system established by the IMF and World Bank is the creation of an economic loop where loans are directly reimbursed to Western companies for extracting local resources. Additionally, capital is seldom locally owned, and the depreciation of local currency further impedes local savers and entrepreneurs from accumulating future wealth.

These effects can be perceived as a modern-day form of colonialism, whereby a continuous stream of resources is channeled from impoverished countries to wealthy ones using debt as a vehicle. As Gladstein argues, the intent behind this—be it benevolent or malevolent—has little relevance to the billions of individuals affected. In his writing, he states that in 2015, the "West" obtained 50% of raw materials and 28% of labor hours from the Global South. Other statistics highlight this exploitation: as of 2020, the primary exports of some of these countries were commodities not meant for local consumption but intended for export - Niger exported 75% of uranium, Mali 72% of gold, Zambia 70% of copper, Burundi 60% of coffee, Malawi 55% of tobacco, and Togo 50% of copper.

Examining real wages in countries under the guidance of the IMF and World Bank also reveals the system's impact. During Bolivia's time under IMF from 1975 to 1984, the average work hours needed to purchase 1000 calories of staples like bread, beans, corn, wheat, sugar, potatoes, milk, or quinoa increased five-fold. Similarly, in 75% of countries in Africa and Latin America under IMF and World Bank guidance, the purchasing power of an unskilled worker's daily wage—when it comes to food—fell to levels not seen since the 18th century.

Interestingly, the IMF and World Bank have never included requirements to safeguard free speech, curb military expenditure, or mitigate police brutality in their loan conditions. In fact, their lending practices reveal a disturbing comfort with autocratic regimes; they have frequently financed dictatorships, leading to an assertion that the institutions "have rarely met a dictator they did not like." In 1979, a third of the World Bank's loans were extended to 15 of the most oppressive governments. They have also shown a willingness to replace leaders who oppose them, or to support dictators following coups. An example of this is Blaise Compaoré, who assassinated Thomas Sankara – a leader intent on refusing repayment of debts accumulated by the preceding dictator.

Gladstein points to Ferdinand Marcos as an iconic representation of the IMF and World Bank's dealings. Under Marcos' rule, the Philippines devolved from being one of the more prosperous Asian countries in 1966 to a nation steeped in debt by 1986. The national debt skyrocketed from $500 million to $28.1 billion, while Marcos managed to transfer nearly $10 billion into Swiss bank accounts. Unfortunately, the debt burden of these nations does not get cancelled when such dictators abdicate, as one might expect under the principle of "odious debt".

In his book, Gladstein uses the example of West Papua, an area he likens to a real-life Pandora. Despite its rich natural resources and the population's desire for independence from Indonesia, the World Bank financed resource extraction projects that resulted in waste dumping in a national park. They also endorsed an Indonesian government initiative called "transmigration," designed to assimilate the West Papuans into the Indonesian nation. The program's execution included military-supervised voting, police violence in response to resistance, and replacing local food sources - the indigenous Sago palm was replaced by Java rice.

The loans provided to these nations exist as assets on the balance sheets of Western banks, which makes the prospect of a country declaring bankruptcy potentially catastrophic for these banks. When nations are unable to meet interest repayments, new loans are rolled out to maintain the status quo, leading to what Payer terms as the 'debt trap'. This is the scenario wherein a country can only repay its previous debt by accruing new debt. According to Payer, this situation became the norm as early as the 1970s. Since then, the outflow of funds via interest payments alone has exceeded the amount of aid these nations have received.

The book then proceeds to describe the 'development set' - employees of the IMF and World Bank who enjoy generous, tax-free salaries and live luxurious lives. Borrowing an analogy from Joseph Stiglitz, these individuals are compared to remote bomb operators in warfare, making economic decisions from afar for countries they have no tangible connection with, where the local inhabitants only register as statistical figures. Notably, some individuals have literally embodied this comparison. For instance, Robert McNamara, who both escalated World Bank lending to impoverished nations and orchestrated troop deployment to Vietnam, and Paul Wolfowitz, who played a key role in planning the Iraq war.

Gladstein posits that while to the employees of these institutions, countries may seem like economic experiments or tests, the people living in these countries bear the real-life impacts of their decisions. He further notes that while austerity policies may make sense in a purely free market scenario, the reality is that the imposition of "free trade" on impoverished nations for resource extraction is unfair, as the imposing countries often have stringent capital controls in place themselves.

Despite these challenges, Gladstein's book concludes on an optimistic note about the future. He cites the example of the African Bitcoin conference hosted by Ghana in 2022. Attendees gathered to discuss how to leverage this open-source, censorship-resistant technology to bypass the constraints of the traditional banking sector. He highlights the work of the company Strike that utilizes the Bitcoin network to enable people to save up to 40% in remittances compared to services like Western Union.

Bitcoin also empowers individuals to control their own savings. Interestingly, the primary adopters of this technology are impoverished countries. Mining can potentially stimulate local power generation, given its capacity to immediately sell electricity, which could further spur the expansion of local power grids. On a Bitcoin standard, unpayable loans cannot be granted as Bitcoin cannot be printed at will. This effectively shuts down the opportunity for exploitation via the debt trap and encourages investors to have a vested interest in these nations' development.